Executive Summary
=================
The growing amount of orbital space debris surrounding Earth is becoming
a significant issue as space exploration continues to expand and
satellite communication networks continue to grow. Over time the amount
of debris will grow exponentially, even without future space launches,
because the debris will collide with itself and break into smaller
pieces. Scientists and engineers worldwide have proposed numerous
methods of removing these potentially dangerous orbital objects. The
present challenge for any company that wants to prevent catastrophe by
reducing the danger to their spacecraft and satellites is deciding which
alternative to invest in.

We have created a mathematical model which evaluates an active space
debris removal (ADR) method and produces an associated return of
investment (ROI) that can be compared to other ADR methods. This model
takes into consideration an ADR method’s altitude and mass range, rate
of debris removal per year, and cost. It also requires a list of orbital
debris that is currently in space whose size, velocity, and altitudes
are known. After analyzing the efficiency and capability of an ADR
method, our model calculates the new risk that a spacecraft would assume
after the ADR method has been implemented. This new, and hopefully
decreased, risk is converted to a monetary gain normally used in ROI
estimation. The total cost of the ADR method represents the cost of
investment.

Our research has led us to consider four ADR methods that have been
developed and analyzed by scientists during the past decade. These
alternatives have different ranges of altitude that they are capable of
reaching, but all are within the low-Earth orbit (LEO, 200-2000km
altitude). Our study focuses on LEO because this is where the highest
density of space debris is and it is also where much of government and
industry space traffic occurs. Each ADR methods guides objects into a
lower orbit where the debris spirals toward Earth and eventually burns
up as it skims the atmosphere.This process is known as deorbiting. The
ADR methods are listed below:

1.  **Ion Beam Shepherd:** A spacecraft uses a high velocity
    concentrated ion beam to guide objects of all sizes into lower orbit
    without contact . This method can remove large objects up to 5000
    kg, but only at a rate of almost two per year.

2.  **Robot Arm -— Solid Rocket Propellant:** This spacecraft grabs a
    piece of debris with a robot arm and attaches a thruster de-orbiting
    kit (TDK) to the object. The kit uses solid rocket propellant to
    thrust the debris into a lower orbit. This procedure can be
    completed up to five times per year, over seven years, provided that
    the spacecraft is restocked with TDKs and fueled by another ship
    every year.

3.  **Robot Arm —- Electrodynamic Tether:** This method is similar to
    the method above in that it grabs an object with a robot arm, but it
    uses electro-dynamic tether (EDT) to lower the orbit of debris. The
    EDT consists of a conductive tether that sends current to the debris
    which generates a force created from the electric charge interacting
    with the magnetic field. This force slows the debris down into a
    lower orbit. This eliminates the need for propellant, but this
    method can only remove one object per year.

4.  **Electrodynamic Debris Eliminator:** Also known as EDDE, this
    method implements the same EDT technology with some modifications.
    It is intended for debris of smaller mass (2-50kg) but it can remove
    many more objects per year.

As noted above, each of these ADR removal methods has an upper limit of
objects removed per year. In addition, each operates at certain
altitudes and is capable of eliminating debris within a specific mass
range. These constraints reduce the effect each ADR method has on the
collision risk to a mission spacecraft. Our model used current NORAD
data to simulate the current population of space debris in LEO and
predict how each ADR method and pairs ADR methods would be able to
eliminate portions of the debris. Our comparative baseline for collision
risk was the estimate that Hubble like missions have a 1 in 221 chance
of a catastrophic collision with space debris. Each method or pair
eliminated a portion of debris, resulting in a lowered risk to
spacecraft in LEO. To better understand the benefit of lowering the
risk, our model converted the risk reduction of each method or pair to a
return on investment (ROI). The results of each ADR method, implemented
over a period of 5 years, are listed below:

| ADR method | Calculated ROI (%) |   
---: | ---
| IBS |-99.923|              
|Propellant |-99.803   |           
|EDT |-99.961    |          
| EDDE| -99.998     |         


Since each individual option incurs a significant fiscal loss, our
findings do not encourage investment into any one or pair of these four
ADR methods. Instead, we propose the implementation of mitigation
measures which are aimed at curtailing the future growth of debris
rather than actively removing existing debris. On a policy level, we
recommend a tax rebate system be implemented which encourages industry
to design spacecraft for self-removal. This has been shown to be cost
effective. For a private company, instead of investing in ADR
technology, we recommend investing in strengthening spacecraft and
improving debris avoidance capabilities.
